---
layout: post

title:  "External"

categories: ["Api", "Widgets"]

tags: ['external']

---
`SimpleKivy.SimpleKivy.External(title='External window title', hwnd=None, k=None, **kwargs)`{: .python}


Attaches an external window to the current kivy window. It's like runing your program alongside another program.
In essence, it is an external window that follows an empty BoxLayout and changes the window being focused when entering and leaving the box with the mouse.

{: .prompt-warning }

> Experimental. **Windows only**. Expect window flickering. You cannot show any widget on top of the `External` widget.


## Parameters

`hwnd: int, None`: 

> Windows' `hwnd` of a program to be attached to your window. Defaults to `None`
> - `int`: External program's `hwnd` id.

> - `None`: The `title` parameter will be used instead to find the external window.

> Default is `None`.

`title (str)`: External window title. Used to find the external window when `hwnd` value is `None`. Default is `"External window title"`



`k: None, str, or NOTKEY`

> Key specification for quick acess:

> - `None`: Automatically sets an int value.

> - `str`: Use specific string key.

> - `NOTKEY`: Special flag indicating no key should be used.


`size: str or sequence of 2 ints`

> Size specification of the widget:


> - `str: "x{width}"`: Sets widget `width` and `size_hint_x = None`.

> - `str: "y{height}"`: Sets widget `height` and `size_hint_y = None`.

> - `str: "xchildren"`: Sets `size_hint_x = None` and binds this widget's width to the sum of the widths of its children.

> - `str: "ychildren"`: Sets `size_hint_y = None` and binds this widget's height to the sum of the heights of its children.

> - `str: "xchild_max"`: Sets `size_hint_x = None` and binds this widget's width to the child with the maximum width.

> - `str: "ychild_max"`: Sets `size_hint_y = None` and binds this widget's height to the child with the maximum height.


{: .prompt-info }

> *You can combine up to two of the above size string specifications.*

> - `str: "{number}"`: Processed as `size = (number, number)` and `size_hint = (None,None)`. *Cannot be combined with other string specifications*.


> - `sequence: (int, int)`: Size of the widget. Same as `Kivy`. Has no effect if `size_hint` argument is not set to `None`.


> Example:

```py
sk.External(size = "y35")
sk.External(size = "x120y35")
sk.External(size = "xchildreny40")
sk.External(size = "xchildrenychildren")
sk.External(size = "xchild_maxy40")
sk.External(size = "60")
sk.External(size = (120,35), size_hint = (None, None))
```

`enable_events: bool`

> Whether the widget will send events to the event_manager set in MyApp using the widgets `k/id` property as event identifier.
> - `True`: Triggers events.

> - `False`: Doesn't trigger events.


`on_event: str, iterable (tuple or list), dict`

> Defines which events/property changes will trigger the event_manager. Only has effect if `enable_events = True`.
> - `str`: Name of the event or property that will trigger the event_manager.

> - `iterable: [str, str, ...]`: Will trigger events for each name in the iterable.

> - `dict: {"{event_name}": callback}`: Calls `instance.bind(**on_event)` during widget creation.


> Example:

```py
sk.External(enable_events = True, on_event = 'width')
sk.External(enable_events = True, on_event = 'on_touch_down')
sk.External(enable_events = True, on_event = ['width','height','pos'])
sk.External(enable_events = True, on_event = {"size": lambda ins,v: print("size =",v)})

```

`do_dot_subevent: bool`

> Adds a "." to describe the event when triggering the event_manager.
> - `True`: The event identifier is `str(widget.id)+".{event_name}"`.

> - `False`: The event identifier is the same as the widget's `k/id`.

> Default is `False`.



`bcolor, lcolor` and any other valid properties with ***color*** in their name can be specified with `sequence or str` during creation:

> - `sequence: [float, float, float, float]`: Sequence `(list or tuple)` of 4 `float` numbers (0.0-1.0). Same as `Kivy`.

> - `str: "{hex_string}"`: Hex color in the format `"#000000"`.

> - `str: "{named_color}"`: Name of a color from the [list of named colors](/posts/named_colors) supported by `SimpleKivy`.


>> `bcolor`: Background color of the widget.


>> `lcolor`: Line color of the widget.


`lwidth: number (float or int)`

> Width of the widget's border line.


## Returns

`External` widget created dynamically.

## Kivy Bases

`BoxLayout`

`ewin (Simplekivy.Native.ExternalWindow)`: Manages changes on the box and keeps the external program on top of it.



{: .prompt-info }

> This page only details the new or modified features. All other parameters inherit from the base Kivy widgets and can be found in the [official Kivy documentation](https://kivy.org/doc/stable).



## Events


`on_enter()`: Fired when the mouse enters the widget.

`on_leave()`: Fired when the mouse leaves the widget.

